docs/DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# Development Guide

## TL;DR - Start & Stop

```bash
# Start everything (RECOMMENDED)
make dev

# Ctrl+C to stop everything properly
```

That's it. One command to start, Ctrl+C to stop. Everything shuts down cleanly.

---

## What `make dev` Does

1. **Starts Zerg** (Docker containers on ports 47200/47300)
2. **Starts Jarvis** (Node server on 8787, Vite UI on 8080)
3. **Traps Ctrl+C** to shut down both properly
4. **Shows status** of all services

### Services & Ports

| Service | Port | URL |
|---------|------|-----|
| **Jarvis UI** | 8080 | http://localhost:8080 |
| Jarvis Voice Server | 8787 | Internal (proxied from UI) |
| Zerg Backend API | 47300 | http://localhost:47300 |
| Zerg Frontend | 47200 | http://localhost:47200 |
| PostgreSQL | 5432 | Internal (Docker network) |

---

## Alternative Commands

### Start Individual Services

```bash
# Just Zerg (Docker)
make zerg-up
make zerg-down

# Just Jarvis (Node processes)
make jarvis-dev
cd apps/jarvis && make stop
```

### Monitoring

```bash
# View Zerg logs
make zerg-logs

# Check service status
cd apps/jarvis && make status

# Check what's running
docker ps
lsof -i :8080  # Jarvis UI
lsof -i :8787  # Jarvis voice server
lsof -i :47300 # Zerg backend
```

### Debugging

```bash
# View help
make help

# Check Jarvis status
cd apps/jarvis && make status

# Reset Zerg database (DESTROYS DATA)
make zerg-down
make zerg-reset
make zerg-up
```

---

## Common Issues

### "Port already in use"

Something didn't shut down properly:

```bash
# Nuclear option - kill everything
make zerg-down
cd apps/jarvis && make stop
pkill -f vite
pkill -f "node.*server.js"

# Then restart
make dev
```

### "Cannot connect to voice server"

The Jarvis voice server (port 8787) isn't running or the proxy isn't working:

1. Check if it started: `lsof -i :8787`
2. Check Vite config has proxy: `cat apps/jarvis/apps/web/vite.config.ts`
3. Restart: Ctrl+C, then `make dev`

### "SyntaxError: Unexpected token '<'"

You're getting HTML instead of JSON from an API endpoint. Usually means:

1. Backend server isn't running
2. Vite proxy misconfigured
3. Wrong API endpoint

Check the browser console for the full error with URL and response body.

---

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Just Jarvis tests
make test-jarvis

# Just Zerg tests
make test-zerg

# Jarvis E2E tests (with Playwright UI)
cd apps/jarvis/e2e
npx playwright test --ui
```

---

## Development Workflow

### Daily Workflow

```bash
# Morning - start everything
make dev

# Work on code...
# (Vite hot-reloads frontend automatically)
# (Backend needs manual restart if you change server code)

# Evening - stop everything
Ctrl+C
```

### Making Changes

**Frontend changes** (Jarvis UI):
- Edit files in `apps/jarvis/apps/web/`
- Browser auto-refreshes (Vite HMR)

**Backend changes** (Jarvis voice server):
- Edit files in `apps/jarvis/apps/server/`
- Must restart: Ctrl+C, then `make dev`

**Zerg changes** (Docker):
- Edit files in `apps/zerg/backend/` or `apps/zerg/frontend-web/`
- Must rebuild: `make zerg-down && make zerg-up`

---

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         Your Browser (8080)             │
│                                         │
│  ┌─────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │   Jarvis UI (React + Vite)      │   │
│  │   - Voice interface             │   │
│  │   - Task inbox                  │   │
│  │   - Chat transcripts            │   │
│  └──────────┬──────────────────────┘   │
│             │ /api/* → 8787            │
└─────────────┼─────────────────────────┘
              │
        Vite Proxy
              │
┌─────────────▼──────────────────────────┐
│   Jarvis Voice Server (8787, Node)     │
│   - OpenAI Realtime API sessions       │
│   - MCP tool integration               │
│   - Audio streaming                    │
└─────────────┬──────────────────────────┘
              │
              │ HTTP API calls
              │
┌─────────────▼──────────────────────────┐
│   Zerg Backend (47300, Docker)         │
│   - FastAPI                            │
│   - Agent orchestration                │
│   - LangGraph workflows                │
│   - PostgreSQL                         │
└────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Project Structure

```
zerg/
├── apps/
│   ├── jarvis/              # Voice agent
│   │   ├── apps/
│   │   │   ├── server/      # Node server (8787)
│   │   │   └── web/         # Vite frontend (8080)
│   │   └── Makefile
│   └── zerg/                # Agent platform
│       ├── backend/         # FastAPI (47300)
│       ├── frontend-web/    # React (47200)
│       └── e2e/            # Playwright tests
├── scripts/
│   └── dev.sh              # Unified dev script
├── Makefile                # Main commands
└── DEVELOPMENT.md          # This file
```

---

## Environment Variables

Key variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Jarvis
JARVIS_SERVER_PORT=8787
JARVIS_WEB_PORT=8080
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...

# Zerg
BACKEND_PORT=47300
FRONTEND_PORT=47200
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://...
JWT_SECRET=...
```

Copy from `.env.example` if missing.

---

## Troubleshooting Checklist

- [ ] Is Docker running? (`docker ps`)
- [ ] Is port 8080 free? (`lsof -i :8080`)
- [ ] Is port 8787 free? (`lsof -i :8787`)
- [ ] Is port 47300 free? (`lsof -i :47300`)
- [ ] Do you have `.env` configured? (`cat .env`)
- [ ] Are node_modules installed? (`cd apps/jarvis && yarn install`)
- [ ] Is Vite proxy configured? (`cat apps/jarvis/apps/web/vite.config.ts`)

---

## Getting Help

1. **Check logs**: Browser console + terminal output
2. **Run diagnostics**: `cd apps/jarvis && make status`
3. **Check Docker**: `docker ps` and `make zerg-logs`
4. **Nuclear restart**: `make zerg-down && cd apps/jarvis && make stop && make dev`

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-13

Commit message:

Unify JS package manager on Bun, remove Yarn/npm
- Remove yarn.lock, package-lock.json, .yarnrc.yml from Jarvis
- Remove package-lock.json from e2e
- Update all Dockerfiles to use oven/bun:alpine
- Update Makefiles and scripts to use bun/bunx instead of npm/yarn/npx
- Add apps/zerg/e2e to root workspaces
- Regenerate bun.lock with all workspaces

docs/DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# Development Guide

## TL;DR - Start & Stop

```bash
# Start everything (RECOMMENDED)
make dev

# Ctrl+C to stop everything properly
```

That's it. One command to start, Ctrl+C to stop. Everything shuts down cleanly.

---

## What `make dev` Does

1. **Starts Zerg** (Docker containers on ports 47200/47300)
2. **Starts Jarvis** (Node server on 8787, Vite UI on 8080)
3. **Traps Ctrl+C** to shut down both properly
4. **Shows status** of all services

### Services & Ports

| Service | Port | URL |
|---------|------|-----|
| **Jarvis UI** | 8080 | http://localhost:8080 |
| Jarvis Voice Server | 8787 | Internal (proxied from UI) |
| Zerg Backend API | 47300 | http://localhost:47300 |
| Zerg Frontend | 47200 | http://localhost:47200 |
| PostgreSQL | 5432 | Internal (Docker network) |

---

## Alternative Commands

### Start Individual Services

```bash
# Just Zerg (Docker)
make zerg-up
make zerg-down

# Just Jarvis (Node processes)
make jarvis-dev
cd apps/jarvis && make stop
```

### Monitoring

```bash
# View Zerg logs
make zerg-logs

# Check service status
cd apps/jarvis && make status

# Check what's running
docker ps
lsof -i :8080  # Jarvis UI
lsof -i :8787  # Jarvis voice server
lsof -i :47300 # Zerg backend
```

### Debugging

```bash
# View help
make help

# Check Jarvis status
cd apps/jarvis && make status

# Reset Zerg database (DESTROYS DATA)
make zerg-down
make zerg-reset
make zerg-up
```

---

## Common Issues

### "Port already in use"

Something didn't shut down properly:

```bash
# Nuclear option - kill everything
make zerg-down
cd apps/jarvis && make stop
pkill -f vite
pkill -f "node.*server.js"

# Then restart
make dev
```

### "Cannot connect to voice server"

The Jarvis voice server (port 8787) isn't running or the proxy isn't working:

1. Check if it started: `lsof -i :8787`
2. Check Vite config has proxy: `cat apps/jarvis/apps/web/vite.config.ts`
3. Restart: Ctrl+C, then `make dev`

### "SyntaxError: Unexpected token '<'"

You're getting HTML instead of JSON from an API endpoint. Usually means:

1. Backend server isn't running
2. Vite proxy misconfigured
3. Wrong API endpoint

Check the browser console for the full error with URL and response body.

---

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Just Jarvis tests
make test-jarvis

# Just Zerg tests
make test-zerg

# Jarvis E2E tests (with Playwright UI)
cd apps/jarvis/e2e
bunx playwright test --ui
```

---

## Development Workflow

### Daily Workflow

```bash
# Morning - start everything
make dev

# Work on code...
# (Vite hot-reloads frontend automatically)
# (Backend needs manual restart if you change server code)

# Evening - stop everything
Ctrl+C
```

### Making Changes

**Frontend changes** (Jarvis UI):
- Edit files in `apps/jarvis/apps/web/`
- Browser auto-refreshes (Vite HMR)

**Backend changes** (Jarvis voice server):
- Edit files in `apps/jarvis/apps/server/`
- Must restart: Ctrl+C, then `make dev`

**Zerg changes** (Docker):
- Edit files in `apps/zerg/backend/` or `apps/zerg/frontend-web/`
- Must rebuild: `make zerg-down && make zerg-up`

---

## Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────┐
│         Your Browser (8080)             │
│                                         │
│  ┌─────────────────────────────────┐   │
│  │   Jarvis UI (React + Vite)      │   │
│  │   - Voice interface             │   │
│  │   - Task inbox                  │   │
│  │   - Chat transcripts            │   │
│  └──────────┬──────────────────────┘   │
│             │ /api/* → 8787            │
└─────────────┼─────────────────────────┘
              │
        Vite Proxy
              │
┌─────────────▼──────────────────────────┐
│   Jarvis Voice Server (8787, Node)     │
│   - OpenAI Realtime API sessions       │
│   - MCP tool integration               │
│   - Audio streaming                    │
└─────────────┬──────────────────────────┘
              │
              │ HTTP API calls
              │
┌─────────────▼──────────────────────────┐
│   Zerg Backend (47300, Docker)         │
│   - FastAPI                            │
│   - Agent orchestration                │
│   - LangGraph workflows                │
│   - PostgreSQL                         │
└────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Project Structure

```
zerg/
├── apps/
│   ├── jarvis/              # Voice agent
│   │   ├── apps/
│   │   │   ├── server/      # Node server (8787)
│   │   │   └── web/         # Vite frontend (8080)
│   │   └── Makefile
│   └── zerg/                # Agent platform
│       ├── backend/         # FastAPI (47300)
│       ├── frontend-web/    # React (47200)
│       └── e2e/            # Playwright tests
├── scripts/
│   └── dev.sh              # Unified dev script
├── Makefile                # Main commands
└── DEVELOPMENT.md          # This file
```

---

## Environment Variables

Key variables in `.env`:

```bash
# Jarvis
JARVIS_SERVER_PORT=8787
JARVIS_WEB_PORT=8080
OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-...

# Zerg
BACKEND_PORT=47300
FRONTEND_PORT=47200
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://...
JWT_SECRET=...
```

Copy from `.env.example` if missing.

---

## Troubleshooting Checklist

- [ ] Is Docker running? (`docker ps`)
- [ ] Is port 8080 free? (`lsof -i :8080`)
- [ ] Is port 8787 free? (`lsof -i :8787`)
- [ ] Is port 47300 free? (`lsof -i :47300`)
- [ ] Do you have `.env` configured? (`cat .env`)
- [ ] Are node_modules installed? (`bun install` from repo root)
- [ ] Is Vite proxy configured? (`cat apps/jarvis/apps/web/vite.config.ts`)

---

## Getting Help

1. **Check logs**: Browser console + terminal output
2. **Run diagnostics**: `cd apps/jarvis && make status`
3. **Check Docker**: `docker ps` and `make zerg-logs`
4. **Nuclear restart**: `make zerg-down && cd apps/jarvis && make stop && make dev`

---

**Last Updated**: 2025-11-13
